release 12 (#322)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/migrations/11-12.md

---
id: 11-12
title: Version 11 to 12
---

This migration guide contains migration instructions for:

- [eightshift/boilerplate](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/frontend-libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/releases/tag/8.0.0) - **7+ --> 8.0.0**

**This release contains a couple of breaking changes!**
Check the list below for details about changes that will have to be made.

Also, a couple of changes are optional, but recommended.

> The major update on this release is the cache loading functionality and refactoring helpers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The major update on this release is the "cache" loading functionality and refactoring of helpers.
```

## Required changes

The following changes are required to update your project to the latest version.

### Remove Manifest class

**Migration time: ~1min.**

> The `Manifest` class has been removed from the libs. If you used this class in your project, you should remove it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Manifest` class has been removed. If you are using this class in your project, please remove it.
```

### Update Enqueue classes

**Migration time: ~5min.**

> 1. If you are using `EnqueueTheme`, `EnqueueBlocks` or `EnqueueAdmin` classes, you should remove the `$this->manifest` dependency from the constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you're using `EnqueueTheme`, `EnqueueBlocks` or `EnqueueAdmin` classes, remove the `$this->manifest` dependency from the constructor.
```

> 2. If you are using `$this->manifest->getAssetsManifestItem` method in your project you should replace it with the new `Helpers::getAsset` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If you're using the `$this->manifest->getAssetsManifestItem` method in your project, replace it with the new `Helpers::getAsset` method.
```

> 3. If you are using `getBlockFrontentScriptHandle` method rename it to `getBlockFrontendScriptHandle`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. If you're using the `getBlockFrontentScriptHandle` method, rename it to `getBlockFrontendScriptHandle`.
```

> 4. If you are using custom `wp_register_script` you should update the `wp_register_script` function to use the new `Helpers::getAsset` method and update the script handle if you are using WP 6.3+.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If you're using a custom `wp_register_script`, update the function to use the new `Helpers::getAsset` method and update the script handle if using WordPress 6.3+.
```

> ### Add Cache class

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add the `Cache` class
```

**Migration time: ~5min.**

> 1. You should run WP-CLI command `wp boilerplate manifest-cache` to add the cache functionality to your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the `wp boilerplate manifest-cache` CLI command to add the cache functionality to your project.
```

> 2. Open your `functions.php` file or `<plugins-name>.php` file and add the following code before the `Main` class initialization. You can check the [example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/blob/develop/functions.php) from the boilerplate or [example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin/blob/develop/eightshift-boilerplate.php) from the plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open the `functions.php` (or `<plugin-name>.php`) file and add the following code before the `Main` class initialization:
   - [for themes](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/blob/develop/functions.php)
   - [for plugins](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin/blob/develop/eightshift-boilerplate.php)
```
(spaces are important)

```php
if (\class_exists(ManifestCache::class)) {
	(new ManifestCache())->setAllCache();
}
```

> ### Replace ManifestItem filter with Asset helper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Replace the `ManifestItem` filter with the Asset helper
```

**Migration time: ~2min.**

> If you are using the `apply_filters(Manifest::MANIFEST_ITEM, '<key>')` filter in your project, you should replace it with the new `Helpers::getAsset('<key>')` helper.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using the `apply_filters(Manifest::MANIFEST_ITEM, '<key>')` filter in your project, replace it with the `Helpers::getAsset('<key>')` helper.
```

### Update helpers

**Migration time: ~5min.**

> 1. Find all instances of `outputCssVariablesGlobal(array $globalManifest = [])` function in your project and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariablesGlobal()`.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Find all instances of the `outputCssVariablesGlobal(array $globalManifest = [])` function and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariablesGlobal()`.

```

> 2. Find all instances of `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, array $globalManifest = [], string $customSelector = '')` function in your project and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, string $customSelector = '')`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Find all instances of the `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, array $globalManifest = [], string $customSelector = '')` function and remove the global settings variable, eg. `outputCssVariables(array $attributes, array $manifest, string $unique, string $customSelector = '')`.
```

> ### Update all renderPartial methods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Replace all `renderPartial` methods
```

**Migration time: ~15min.**

> Find all instances of `renderPartial` method in your project and replace it with the new `render` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find all instances of the `renderPartial` method and replace it with the `render` method.
```

**Before:**
```php
echo Components::renderPartial(
	'component',
	'utils',
	'debug-field-details',
	[
		'name' => Components::checkAttr('fieldName', $attributes, $manifest),
	]
);
```

**After:**
```php
echo Components::render(
	'debug-field-details',
	[
		'name' => Components::checkAttr('fieldName', $attributes, $manifest),
	],
	'components',
	false,
	'utils/partials'
);
```

> ### Update render method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Update the `render` method
```

**Migration time: ~10min.**

> Find all instances of `render` method in your project where you are using more than 2 arguments and check the new method signature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Find all instances of the `render` method to which more than 2 arguments are passed and update the method call to match the new signature.
```

**Before:**
```php
return Components::render(
	'form',
	Components::props('form', [], $formProps),
	'',
	true
);
```

**After:**
```php
return Components::render(
	'form',
	Components::props('form', [], $formProps),
	'components',
	true
);
```

> ### Update wrapper and all blocks with innerBlockContent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Update the wrapper and all blocks with `innerBlockContent`
```

**Migration time: ~15min.**

> 1. You should find all instances of `$this->renderWrapperView` method in your project and replace it with the new `echo $renderContent` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Find all instances of the `$this->renderWrapperView` method in your project and replace it with `echo $renderContent` method.
```

> 2. You should find all instances of `$innerBlockContent` param in your project and replace it with the new `echo $renderContent` method. (Wrapper, Group, Columns, etc.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Find all instances of the `$innerBlockContent` variable and replace it with `echo $renderContent`. (applies to the wrapper, and blocks using inner blocks, like Group, Columns, ...)
```

> 3. Remove `wrapperManualContent` param from all `wrapper` instances.
> You can check the [example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/feature/new-libs/blocks/init/src/Blocks/wrapper/wrapper.php)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Remove the `wrapperManualContent` parameter from all `wrapper` instances.
For more details, check the [example](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/blob/feature/new-libs/blocks/init/src/Blocks/wrapper/wrapper.php)
```

**Before:**
```php
$this->renderWrapperView(
	$templatePath,
	$attributes,
	$innerBlockContent
);
```

**After:**
```php
echo $renderContent;
```

> ## Optional changes

Reviewer 2: I'd bump this to non-optional, as the old versions will be deprecated in the next release.

The following changes are not required, but you might consider adding them to have all the latest modifications.

> ### Replace Components helper with new one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Replace the `Components` helper
```

**Migration time: ~5min.**

> If you are using the `Components` helper in your project, you should replace it with the new `Helpers` helper.
> Fastest way to do this is to search and replace `Components::` with `Helpers::` in your project and `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components` with `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Helpers`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Helper functions from the `Components` class are renamed, and will be deprecated in the next version. They are now located in the `Helpers` class. Functions were not changed beyond the rename (except the ones mentioned above).

The fastest way to change them is to search and replace `Components::` with `Helpers::`, and `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Components` with `EightshiftLibs\Helpers\Helpers` in the project.
```

---
id: 11-12
title: Version 11 to 12
---

This migration guide contains migration instructions for:

- [eightshift/boilerplate](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/boilerplate-plugin](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-boilerplate-plugin/releases/tag/5.0.0) - **4+ --> 5.0.0**
- [eightshift/frontend-libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/releases/tag/12.0.0) - **11+ --> 12.0.0**
- [eightshift/libs](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-libs/releases/tag/8.0.0) - **7+ --> 8.0.0**

**This release contains a couple of breaking changes!**
Check the list below for details about changes that will have to be made.

Also, a couple of changes are optional, but recommended.

The major update on this release is the "cache" loading functionality and refactoring of helpers.

## Important changes

> This version was focused on improving speed and performance of the project and we set the minimum PHP version to **8.2** so if you project is using older PHP version you should update it before updating the setup.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This version was focused on improving speed and performance of the project and we set the minimum PHP version to **8.2** so if your project is using older PHP version you should update it before updating the setup.
```
